[MUSIC PLAYING]
Anyone who hangs out
in an astrological crowd
knows something about the
infamous Saturn return.
Saturn returns in the
sky to where it was
about every 29 and 1/2 years.
Just like the Earth goes
around the sun once every year,
Saturn goes around the sun,
and therefore goes around
the zodiac, once every
29 and 1/2 years.
We can round it off to 30
years, but it's actually
about 29 and 1/2 years.
What that means is
that Saturn moves
through each and every sign of
the zodiac in 29 and 1/2 years.
Just like we celebrate our
birthday when the sun returns
to where it was when we were
born-- meaning that the Earth
actually has made one complete
journey around the sun--
just as we celebrate
our annual solar return,
astrologers make
note of the Saturn
return, which is
like our birthday
if we were living on Saturn.
It happens to everyone
around age 29 and 1/2.
And by calculating an exact
horoscope chart or natal
or birth chart, one can
determine the exact day or week
that Saturn returned
or returns to where
it was when you were born.
Now because the Earth
is moving around
inside the orbit of Saturn
moving way out here,
what happens is that outer
planets, just like Mercury,
look like they go retrograde.
And as such, a Saturn return
can happen in one day,
or Saturn can retrograde
back over that same point,
and someone's Saturn
return can be stretched
out for weeks or months or
even up to about eight or nine
months.
Here's the deal.
It's not a one-day event, ever.
As we approach our Saturn return
in our 28th and 29th year,
we begin feeling the
pressure of Saturn.
Saturn is the
planet of authority.
planet of maturity.
Saturn is Father Time.
Saturn is the planet of old age.
In Greek, Saturn was
Chronos, the keeper of time.
Saturn is the grim reaper.
It's you get what you deserve.
But you don't always
deserve what's bad.
But Saturn gets a bad rap
because so much-- so many of us
don't do the hard work
that we need to do
to stay on Saturn's good side.
So for the year or so coming
into the Saturn return,
around 28 and into
our 29th year,
we spend more and more time
feeling Saturn's pressure
to do what we should do.
Of course we don't
know what we should do,
but we feel the
pressure to do it.
So we spend more
time in our days
and in our nights
looking back and saying,
where have I been, what have I
done, over my first 28 years?
What's worked in life?
What hasn't worked?
Where do I want to go?
What do I want to do?
What do I want to
be when I grow up?
Because Saturn is
all about growing up.
And the gate of the Saturn
return is the gate of maturity.
It's the gate of growing up.
Most astrologers
know that age 21
is not the time of
becoming an adult.
OK, it is for legal reasons.
But the fact is that
astrologically, at 28, 29, 30,
once you go through your Saturn
return, then you're a grown up.
Interestingly, we have
a phrase that we say.
That we say never trust anyone
over 30 when you're young.
And when you're over
30, doesn't matter
how cool or wonderful
or mature someone
is in their teens or 20s,
they're not yet grown up.
That is the gate of
the Saturn return.
It's been said that there is
no other time in our lives,
outside of the Saturn
return, when free will is
operating so strongly.
Now we may not know
this at the time,
but if you're in your 30s
or 40s or 50s or more,
look back to that period of life
when you were 28, 29, and 30,
and make a list of the things
that you did or didn't do.
Make a list of the
changes that occurred.
And usually they include getting
married, getting divorced,
buying a home, selling a
home, changing jobs, changing
careers, going back to school.
These big lifetime change moves.
Because in the years coming
up to the Saturn return,
it's like you're
climbing a mountain.
And as mountain climbers
know, sometimes it's
the last mile, the last half
mile, the last 20 feet, that
are the most
difficult. And often,
going into our Saturn
returns, we feel the weight
of the world on our shoulders.
And yet, at that time of
the actual Saturn return
and the days and weeks after, we
feel exhilarated, because we're
now going down the mountain.
The thing is that the
direction we choose
at the time of being on
the top of the mountain
will impact us
for years to come.
And in fact, often
people in their mid-30s
who are bent out
of shape, shall we
say, that are having a difficult
time, that are depressed,
that are in marriages
where they're not happy
or in jobs that
they're not happy,
often these are people who
stepped down off their Saturn
return in a direction
that now they're
in the midst of the woods
and they're going over rivers
and they've lost the
perspective that we have
at the top of the mountain.
So if you're going into
your Saturn return,
take this time in your
life to think about where
you want to be in 30
years, even though we
don't normally do that.
And begin to put in
motion the changes
that will bring about
the you that you
want to be in your future.
Now the fact is that Saturn
returns every 30 years to where
it was when you were born.
And therefore, at about age
57, 58, in that range, Saturn
returns for a second time.
And again, we look
back in our lives
and we think about
what we've done.
We've lived the bulk
of our life now.
We've lived our adult years.
How are we going to ground it?
How are we going to make changes
so that we can live out what
may be the third
third of our life,
until the third
Saturn return, which
occurs roughly around the
age of 85, 86, 87, 88.
And it interestingly corresponds
with the Uranus return.
Uranus is the weird,
eccentric planet that
takes 84 years to go around.
And so as we're going into
our third Saturn return,
we're also dealing with the
eccentricities of old age.
But again, the key is, whether
it's your first, second,
or third Saturn
return, these are
times when, if we pay
attention to where we've been,
where we are, and
where we are going,
we can make decisions
that will have
greater impact than at
other times in our lives.
[MUSIC PLAYING]